books.md, before:

---
permalink: /books/
layout: collection2
collection: books
entries_layout: grid
show_excerpts: false
sort_by: rank
title: "New Books & Projects for 2024"
image:
  path: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/covers/2024-05-29_covers.jpg
  thumbnail: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/covers/2024-05-29_covers.jpg
mastless: false
inline_nav: true
---

Books are still the best way ever invented to explore and share complete visual ideas: a whole gallery in your hand.

These new short-run, editioned books *and prints* are currently available in-person during art events across Sonoma County including [_Art Trails 2024_]({{ site.url}}/trails24/?title=books), and selected items are available at retailers such as Sebastopol's [Silk Moon Gallery.](https://silkmoonca.com/gallery/)

<center>
<a class="btn btn--inverse btn--large" href="mailto:kevin+books@vumondo.com?subject=Updates%20on%20Books%20and%20Prints&body=Please%20keep%20me%20informed%20of%20updates%20on%20sales%20availability%20of%20your%20books%20and%20prints%20related%20to%20AATS%202024">Click Here to Receive Updates on Book and Print Availability or to Order Online</a>
</center>

<!-- <hr>

<h1 style="text-align:center">Books Released for <i>Art at the Source 2024:</i></h1> -->

<!-- 
<figure class="align-center">
<a href="{{ site.url}}/book24"><img src="https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/author-promo-card.jpg"></a>
<figcaption>See you at <a href="{{ site.url}}/aats">Art at the Source</a></figcaption>
</figure>

-->

Commit message:

cleanup for online sales/book links

books.md, after:

---
permalink: /books/
layout: collection2
collection: books
entries_layout: grid
show_excerpts: false
sort_by: rank
title: "Latest Books & Projects"
image:
  path: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/covers/2024-05-29_covers.jpg
  thumbnail: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/covers/2024-05-29_covers.jpg
mastless: false
inline_nav: true
---

Books are still the best way ever invented to explore and share complete visual ideas: a whole gallery in your hand.

These new short-run, editioned books *and prints* are available for purchase online or  in-person during art events across Sonoma County including [_Art Trails_]({{ site.url}}/trails24/?title=books), or at retailers such as Sebastopol's [Silk Moon Gallery](https://silkmoonca.com/gallery/) and art venues including the <a href="https://www.petalumaartscenter.org/" target="_blank">Petaluma Arts Center.</a> 

<center>
<a class="btn btn--inverse btn--large" href="mailto:kevin+books@vumondo.com?subject=Updates%20on%20Books%20and%20Prints&body=Please%20keep%20me%20informed%20of%20updates%20on%20sales%20availability%20of%20your%20books%20and%20prints%20related%20to%20AATS%202024">Click Here to Receive Updates on Book and Print Availability or to Order Online</a>
</center>

<!-- <hr>

<h1 style="text-align:center">Books Released for <i>Art at the Source 2024:</i></h1> -->

<!-- 
<figure class="align-center">
<a href="{{ site.url}}/book24"><img src="https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/author-promo-card.jpg"></a>
<figcaption>See you at <a href="{{ site.url}}/aats">Art at the Source</a></figcaption>
</figure>

-->
