hurt.md, before:

---
permalink: /hurt/
layout: page
title: "Sooner or Later Somebody's Going to Get Hurt"
image:
  path: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/cover-hurt.jpg
mastless: false
inline_nav: true
---

_Made in the Financial District, San Francisco_

The book _Sooner or Later Somebody's Going to Get Hurt_ is part of the broader _Liquidity SF_ project, executed over year of daily photography in San Francisco's Financial District.

Available as an individual book or packaged with one of several editioned prints from the _Liquidity_ project.

<a class="btn btn--info btn--large" href="mailto:kevin+books@vumondo.com?subject=Updates%20on%20the%20Book%20%22Sooner%20or%20Later...%22&body=Please%20keep%20me%20informed%20about%20updates%20for%20sales%20availability%20of%20your%20book%20%22Sooner%20or%20Later%20Somebody%27sGoing%20to%20Get%20Hurt%22">Click Here to Receive Updates on Book and Print Availability</a>

First Printing, 2024

<a href="{{ site.url }}/book24">New Books for 2024.</a>

<figure class="align-center">
<img src="https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/Bjorke-AATS-BizCard-sRGB-web.jpg">
<figcaption>See You on June First</figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

book banner updates, grafgen added

hurt.md, after:

---
permalink: /hurt/
layout: page
title: "Sooner or Later Somebody's Going to Get Hurt"
image:
  path: https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/cover-hurt2.jpg
mastless: false
inline_nav: true
---

_Made in the Financial District, San Francisco_

The book _Sooner or Later Somebody's Going to Get Hurt_ is part of the broader _Liquidity SF_ project, executed over year of daily photography in San Francisco's Financial District.

Available as an individual book or packaged with one of several editioned prints from the _Liquidity_ project.

This project will also contain the book [_Market Hours._]({{ site.url}}/market)

<a class="btn btn--info btn--large" href="mailto:kevin+books@vumondo.com?subject=Updates%20on%20the%20Book%20%22Sooner%20or%20Later...%22&body=Please%20keep%20me%20informed%20about%20updates%20for%20sales%20availability%20of%20your%20book%20%22Sooner%20or%20Later%20Somebody%27sGoing%20to%20Get%20Hurt%22">Click Here to Receive Updates on Book and Print Availability</a>

First Printing, 2024

<a href="{{ site.url }}/book24">New Books for 2024.</a>

<figure class="align-center">
<img src="https://www.botzilla.com/pix2024/Bjorke-AATS-BizCard-sRGB-web.jpg">
<figcaption>See You on June First</figcaption>
</figure>
