README.md, before:

# botzo
Various tools and Jekyll source files to support botzilla.com

Simple dopey install:

`cd ~/code/botzo && JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build && cd ~/code/botzo/_site/; tar -czvf botzo.tar.gz *; chmod 666 botzo.tar.gz; scp botzo.tar.gz botzilla.com@botzilla.com:html/botzo.tar.gz; cd ~/code/botzo`

for Mac,


`cd ~/src/botzo && JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build && cd ~/src/botzo/_site/; tar -czvf botzo.tar.gz *; chmod 666 botzo.tar.gz; scp botzo.tar.gz botzilla.com@botzilla.com:html/botzo.tar.gz; cd ~/src/botzo`

for Chromebook, and a similar tar extraction on botzilla.com:

login via `ssh botzilla.com@botzilla.com` then

`cd html; tar -x -f botzo.tar.gz`

## some notes to myself

Using `site.baseurl` gives "" so use `site.url` or even (for testing locally) just the direct full URL.

Local testing: `bundle exec jekyll serve` in the top directory, then navigate to http://localhost:4000/

Jekyll options include `show_drafts` `future` and `unpublished` in the config -- use `--drafts` on the command line to also read from `/_drafts/` using the file dates.

You can also add `--incremental` (aka `-I`) to get incremental builds -- still not an "official" feature but fine for local editing.
n
Be very careful about file permissions on Mac, they often come through as 600 so be sure to 666 them before sending to the server.

Commit message:

first post in a while, from WSL

README.md, after:

# botzo
Various tools and Jekyll source files to support botzilla.com

Simple dopey install:

`cd ~/code/botzo && JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build && cd ~/code/botzo/_site/; tar -czvf botzo.tar.gz *; chmod 666 botzo.tar.gz; scp botzo.tar.gz botzilla.com@botzilla.com:html/botzo.tar.gz; cd ~/code/botzo`

for Mac,


`cd ~/src/botzo && JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build && cd ~/src/botzo/_site/; tar -czvf botzo.tar.gz *; chmod 666 botzo.tar.gz; scp botzo.tar.gz botzilla.com@botzilla.com:html/botzo.tar.gz; cd ~/src/botzo`

for Chromebook, and a similar tar extraction on botzilla.com:

login via `ssh botzilla.com@botzilla.com` then

`cd html; tar -x -f botzo.tar.gz`

## some notes to myself

Using `site.baseurl` gives "" so use `site.url` or even (for testing locally) just the direct full URL.

Local testing: `bundle exec jekyll serve` in the top directory, then navigate to http://localhost:4000/

When installing, be aware that you may need to run `bundle install` -- the docs are not very good in regard to setting up ruby and jekyll for the first time on systems like WSL.

To send photos to the site, use `scp` and subdirectories of `html/` e.g.:   `scp thing.jpg botzilla.com@botzilla.com:html/pix2020/thing.jpg`

Jekyll options include `show_drafts` `future` and `unpublished` in the config -- use `--drafts` on the command line to also read from `/_drafts/` using the file dates.

You can also add `--incremental` (aka `-I`) to get incremental builds -- still not an "official" feature but fine for local editing.
n
Be very careful about file permissions on Mac, they often come through as 600 so be sure to 666 them before sending to the server.
