---
layout: post
title: "Thimk"
categories: [Wire Service]
---
Eeek, this journal got labelled "the thinking photographers' weblog" by <a href="http://radio.weblogs.com/0100278/2003/05/06.html#a465" target="linkframe">Outwardly Normal 2,</a> an apellation that's already meme'd its way to <a title="joe jenett's dailywebthing" href="http://bulltown.com/radio/categories/dailywebthing/" target="linkframe">joe jenett's dailywebthing.</a>

Guess that means I'd better get on the stick and add those extra twenty or thirty new entries to the <a href="/photo/strobeVolts.html">strobe information page,</a> huh.

Or maybe update the <a href="/searches.html">search dada page,</a> which is also fallling behind by several weeks. Looking at today's logs (how I noticed the link above), I find this lovely gem: <b>"instrucions how to make a homemade bomb."</b> I am <i>so</i> happy to know <i>that</i> search term gets you here. I'd better pencil-in some time for visits and interviews from the FBI later in the day.

As a much easier way to merit this title, I'll just post a link to <a href="http://www.beeflowers.com/" target="linkframe"><font size="+1"><b>Bee.</b></font></a> He has some new stuff that I recommend highly. See it now, before you end up having to pay $40 to see it a Barnes &amp; Noble.

<hr width="30%" align="center" height="1">

Speaking of Bee's site, he was the one who got me to realize the only sensible way to design web pages with slideshows &#151; click on the picture to get to the next picture. Web designers, please take note of this very simple notion. Forcing the reader to hunt around for a "next" link (often disguised cleverly as a doorknob or some tiny arrangement of &raquo; signs), a link that usually jumps around the screen from page to page, is an unnessesary RSI-inducing evil, and one that's easily avoided.


